LiquidCrystalSensor/README.md, before:

# Liquid Crytal Sensor

- An LCD character display is a unique type of display that can only output individual ASCII characters with fixed size.
- Using these individual characters then we can form a text.
- If we take a closer look at the display we can notice that there are small rectangular areas composed of 5X8 pixels grid.
- Each pixel can light up individually,and so we can generate characters within each grid.
![Module](IMG/What-is-LCD-Character-Display-Arduino-LCD-Tutorial-768x498.png)

- The number of the rectangular areas define the size of the LCD.
- The most popular LCD is the 16X 2 LCD,which has two rows with 16 rectangular areas or characters.
- Of course,there are other sizes like 16X 4,16X4,20X4 and so on,but they all work on the same principle.Also,these LCDs can have different background and text color.

## 16X2 LCD Pinout

- It has 16 pins and the first one from left to right is the GROUND pin.
- The second pin is the VCC which we connect the 5V pin on the Arduino Board.
- Next is the V0 pin which we can attach a potentiometer for controlling the contrast of the display.
- The RS pin or register select pin is used for selecting whether we will send commands or data to the LCD.
- For the example if the RS pin is set on the low state or zero volts,then we are sending commands to the LCD like.set the cursor to a specific location,clear the display,turn off the display and so on.
- And when RS pin is set on HIGH state or 5volts we are sending data or characters to the LCD.
![Display](IMG/LCD-Display-Tutorial.png)

- The P/W pin which selects the mode whether we will read or write to the LCD.
- Here the write mode is obvious and it is used for writing or sending commands and data to the LCD.
- The E pin which enables the writting to the registers,or the next 8 pins from D0 to D7.
- The last two pins A and K or anode and cathode are for the LED back light.
![Circuit Diagram](IMG/LCD-Display_Transparent03.png)

Commit message:

formatting Liquid Crystal Sensor
- add IMG.png
- formatting README.md

LiquidCrystalSensor/README.md, after:

# C0045-Liquid crystal displays (LCDs)

## Introduction

- An LCD character display is a type of display that can output individual ASCII characters with fixed size. It consists of rectangular areas composed of a 5x8 pixel grid, with each pixel able to light up individually. The number of rectangular areas defines the size of the LCD, with the most popular being the 16x2 LCD.

## Image

![IMG](IMG/IMG.png)

## How to Connect to a Circuit

- The 16x2 LCD has 16 pins, with the first one being the ground pin and the second one being the VCC pin that connects to the 5V pin on the Arduino board. The V0 pin can be attached to a potentiometer for controlling the contrast of the display.
- The RS pin is used for selecting whether to send commands or data to the LCD. The P/W pin selects the mode for reading or writing to the LCD, with the write mode being used for sending commands and data to the LCD.
- The E pin enables writing to the registers or the next 8 pins from D0 to D7. The last two pins, A and K, are for the LED backlight.

## The Theory behind the Components

- The LCD character display consists of rectangular areas that compose a 5x8 pixel grid. Each pixel can light up individually, allowing the display of characters within each grid. The 16x2 LCD has two rows with 16 rectangular areas or characters.
- The RS pin selects whether to send commands or data to the LCD. The P/W pin selects the mode for reading or writing to the LCD, and the E pin enables writing to the registers or the next 8 pins from D0 to D7.

## Features

- Ability to output individual ASCII characters with fixed size
- Rectangular areas composed of a 5x8 pixel grid
- Popular sizes include 16x2, 16x4, 20x4
- Different background and text colors available
- Pinout includes 16 pins, with the first one being the ground pin and the second one being the VCC pin

## Statistics

- Pinout: 16 pins
- Size: Popular sizes include 16x2, 16x4, 20x4
- Pixel grid: 5x8
- Contrast control: Through a potentiometer attached to the V0 pin
